#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}

\makeatletter
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}

\makeatletter
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}
\usepackage{geometry}
\geometry{verbose,letterpaper,tmargin=1in,bmargin=1in,lmargin=1in,rmargin=1in}

\makeatletter
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}
\usepackage{graphicx}

\makeatletter
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}

\makeatletter
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}

\makeatletter
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}
\usepackage{graphicx}

\makeatletter
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{pslatex}

\makeatletter
\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother


\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother

\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother

\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother

\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother

\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother

\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother

\usepackage{babel}
\makeatother
\end_preamble
\options english,english,english,english,english,english,english,english,english,english,english
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

The FERET Browser
\layout Abstract

The Feret Browser Graphical User Interface system aids in selecting the
 person specific and image specific covariates for each of the images present
 in the database.
 The output is a file which ..........................
\layout Section

Installation:
\layout Subsection

Creating the Binaries:
\layout Standard

The Feret Browser system is written in QT, you need to have the standard
 QT libraries installed on the host system.
 Use the following to compile and run the browser.
\layout LyX-Code

qmake -project
\layout LyX-Code

qmake
\layout LyX-Code

make 
\layout Section

System Overview:
\layout Subsection

Command Line arguments:
\layout Standard

The application takes three command line arguments.
\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
First argument - specifies the folder containing the original Feret Images.
\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
Second argument - specifies the folder containing the normalized Images.
\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
Third argument - This is an optional argument.
 Suppose there exits a file 'A' with the details of the covariates of ten
 subjects.
 Now details of subjects other then those ten need to be appended to the
 file 'A'.
 Then the Feret Browser needs to be opend with this third argument in addition
 to the first and second arguments.
 In this case the third argument needs to specify the path where file 'A'
 exists.
\layout Subsection

When the Feret Browser loads up, the application window looks as follows:
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
protect 
\end_inset 


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
protect 
\end_inset 


\newline 
 
\layout Standard


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
includegraphics[%
\newline 
  scale=0.5]{/s/chopin/a/grad/charu/vision/csuFaceIdEval.4.0/browser/doc/snap3.jpg}
\end_inset 


\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
At the upper left corner of the window the original image of the person
 is displayed.
 
\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
Besides the original image the normalized image of the person loads up which
 is smaller in size than the original image.
 
\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
Below the images a table is seen which gives details about both the images.
 
\layout Paragraph


\series medium 
On the right side of the images, radio buttons are seen which can be used
 to select the person and image specific covariates.
 
\layout Subsection

Person specific covariates: 
\layout Subparagraph

Are attributes that define the person in general and have the same value
 for all the images of the person in the database.
\layout Itemize

Gender 
\layout Itemize

Race 
\layout Itemize

Age 
\layout Itemize

Skin 
\layout Subsection

Image specific covariates:
\layout Subparagraph

Are attributes that define the person in the image and may vary for the
 images of the person in the database.
\layout Itemize

Glasses 
\layout Itemize

Facial Hair 
\layout Itemize

Expression 
\layout Itemize

Mouth 
\layout Itemize

Eyes 
\layout Itemize

Bangs 
\layout Itemize

Makeup 
\layout Subsubsection*


\series medium 
Below the Radio buttons there are five buttons, which are used to load,
 store and clear the covariates data selected by the Radio buttons as their
 name indicates.
 The keyboard Grab is for disabling and enabling the keyboard short-cuts
 and the last button is for closing and exiting the Feret Browser.
\layout Section

Detailed operation of the System:
\layout Enumerate

Choose any image by clicking on the image name displayed in the table below
 the images.
 
\layout Enumerate

On doing so the original image shows up along with the normalized image.
 On the basis of the original image, the image covariates need to be selected.
 The person specific covariates once selected remains the same for all the
 images of the same subject.
 
\layout Enumerate

Every image that is selected before the Feret Browser is closed is marked
 by a 'YES' in the last column named ' DATA' of the table.
 The ' YES ' in this column indicates that the covariates for those images
 have been selected.
 
\layout Subsection

SaveData Button
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
When this button is clicked a dialog box props up in which the name of a
 file needs to be specified.
 This operation writes to that file a 'number' which, indicates the number
 of images whose details will get saved to the same file.
 Following this number, details of all the images marked with a 'YES' in
 the 'DATA' column of the table are saved into the file.
 The details include the person and image specific covariates.
 In addition to this the file contains the values set for two variables
 for each of the images saved.
 The first being 'AGE2'.
 This variable takes values of either 'YOUNG' or 'OLD'.
 The variable takes the value 'YOUNG', if the person in the image has his
 'AGE' (person specific covariate) set to 30 or below 30.
 Else 'AGE2' is set to 'OLD'.
 The second variable is 'SKIN2'.
 It also takes 2 values 'CLEAR' or 'OTHER'.
 It is set to 'CLEAR' if the 'SKIN' (person specific covariate) is set to
 'CLEAR' else it is set to 'OTHER'.
\layout Subsection

LoadData Button 
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
When this button is clicked a dialog box props up and lets the user choose
 the file ( this file should be the one created by the SaveData button or
 along the similar format) to be loaded.
 The LoadData button can be used several times to load different files.
 This is one by which covariate values for different images from several
 files can be combined.
  
\layout Subsection

ClearData Button
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
This button aids to clear all the covariate selection made for all the images
 chosen before the click of this button.
 Also the 'YES' value set in the Last 'DATA' column of the table is now
 set to 'NO'.
 The click of the ClearData button resets the covariates to their default
 value, and helps to start the selection afresh.
\layout Subsection

Keyboard Grab
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
There are some keyboard short-cuts for selecting only the person specific
 covariates.
 This is by default disabled.
 To enable these short-cuts this button needs to be used.
 This is a toggle button.
 On enabling the Keyboard Grab, the Feret Browser revives all the key board
 shortcuts and any other application will not get any keyboard events until
 the Keyboard Grab has been deactivated.
\layout Subsubsection

The Keyboard Short-cuts are as follows:
\layout Paragraph

Gender : 
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key 1 -Male
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key 2 - Female
\layout Paragraph

Race :
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key q - White
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key w - Black
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key e - Asian
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key r - Other
\layout Paragraph

Age:
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key a - Teen
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key s - 20
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key d - 30
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key f - 40
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key g - 50
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key h - 60+
\layout Paragraph

Skin:
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key z - Clear
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key x - Freckled
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key c - Wrinkled
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key v - Both
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
key b - Other
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
The lower or upper case of the keys have the same effect when the Keyboard
 Grab is activated.
\layout Subsection

Quit Button
\layout Subparagraph


\series medium 
The Feret Browser can be closed and exited gracefully on clicking the Quit
 button.
\the_end
